feat: add documentation of primitive (#41)
glu-lang/glu-book: _docs/primitive.md

---
title: Understanding Primitive
category: Data Types
---

> "Primitive" refers to the simplest and most basic data types in programming that are built into a language and are not 
> composed of other types. They represent the most fundamental forms of data and are directly supported by the hardware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Primitive types refer to the simplest and most basic data types in programming that are built into a language and are not 
composed of other types. They represent the most fundamental forms of data in the language.
```

## Primitive Types

### Int (Signed Integers)
Represent whole numbers (positive, negative, or zero).

> The size and range vary depending on the number of bits used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The size and range vary depending on the exact type:
```

| Type  | Bit Size | Range |
|-------|----------|-------|

> | Int   | Depends  |       |

Reviewer: depends on what?

| Int8  | 8 bits   | -128 to 127 |
| Int16 | 16 bits  | -32,768 to 32,767 |
| Int32 | 32 bits  | -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647 |
| Int64 | 64 bits  | -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807 |

### UInt (Unsigned Integers)
Represent whole numbers but only non-negative values (no negative numbers).
The size and range also depend on the number of bits used.

| Type   | Bit Size | Range                           |
|--------|----------|---------------------------------|
| UInt   | Depends  |                                 |
| UInt8  | 8 bits   | 0 to 255                        |
| UInt16 | 16 bits  | 0 to 65,535                     |
| UInt32 | 32 bits  | 0 to 4,294,967,295              |
| UInt64 | 64 bits  | 0 to 18,446,744,073,709,551,615 |

### Char

> Represents a single character, such as a letter, digit, or symbol. The size typically depends on the character encoding, but it is often 1 byte (8 bits).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Represents a single character, such as a letter, digit, or symbol. It represents one byte of unicode.
```

Example:
```glu
let character: Char = 'a';
```

### String
Represents a sequence of characters or text. It's used to store and manipulate text data.

Example:
```glu
let myText: String = "Hello Glu!";
```

> 

Reviewer: maybe add how we can use strings? get length, iterate, concat, ...
